---

copyright:
  years: 2017, 2018, 2019
lastupdated: "2019-03-19"

keywords: authorization, aws, hmac, signature

subcollection: cloud-object-storage

---
{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}
{:screen: .screen}
{:tip: .tip}
{:important: .important}
{:note: .note}
{:download: .download} 
{:http: .ph data-hd-programlang='http'} 
{:javascript: .ph data-hd-programlang='javascript'} 
{:java: .ph data-hd-programlang='java'} 
{:python: .ph data-hd-programlang='python'}

# Using HMAC credentials
{: #hmac}

The {{site.data.keyword.cos_full}} API is a REST-based API for reading and writing objects. It uses {{site.data.keyword.iamlong}} for authentication/authorization, and supports a subset of the S3 API for easy migration of applications to {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}.

In addition to IAM token-based authentication, it is also possible to [authenticate using a signature](/docs/services/cloud-object-storage/hmac?topic=cloud-object-storage-hmac-signature) created from a pair of access and secret keys. This is functionally identical to the AWS Signature Version 4, and HMAC keys provided by IBM COS should work with the majority of S3-compatible libraries and tools.

Users can create a set of HMAC credentials when creating a [Service Credential](/docs/services/cloud-object-storage/iam/service-credentials.html) by providing the configuration parameter `{"HMAC":true}` during credential creation. Here's an example showing how to use the {{site.data.keyword.cos_full}} CLI to create a service key with HMAC credentials using the **Writer** role (other roles may be available for your account and may be best suited for your needs). 

```
ibmcloud resource service-key-create <key-name-without-spaces> Writer --instance-name "<instance name--use quotes if your instance name has spaces>" --parameters '{"HMAC":true}'
```
{:codeblock: .codeblock}

{: caption="Example 1. Using cURL to create HMAC credentials. Note the use of both single- and double-quotation marks." caption-side="bottom"}

If you wish to store the results of the key just generated by the command in Example 1, you can append ` > file.skey` to the end of the example. For the purposes of this instruction set, you need only find the `cos_hmac_keys` heading with child keys, `access_key_id`, and `secret_access_key`&mdash;the two fields you need, as shown in Example 2.

```
    cos_hmac_keys:
        access_key_id:      7exampledonotusea6440da12685eee02
        secret_access_key:  8not8ed850cddbece407exampledonotuse43r2d2586
```

{: caption="Example 2. Keys of note when generating HMAC credentials." caption-side="bottom"}

Of particular interest is the ability to set environment variables (the instructions for which are specific to the operating system involved). For instance, in Example 3, a `.bash_profile` script contains `COS_HMAC_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `COS_HMAC_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` that are exported upon starting a shell and used in development.

```
export COS_HMAC_ACCESS_KEY_ID="7exampledonotusea6440da12685eee02"
export COS_HMAC_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="8not8ed850cddbece407exampledonotuse43r2d2586"

```
{:codeblock: .codeblock}

{: caption="Example 3. Use of HMAC credentials as environment variables." caption-side="bottom"}

After the Service Credential is created, the HMAC Key is included in the `cos_hmac_keys` field. These HMAC keys are then associated with a [Service ID](/docs/iam?topic=iam-serviceids#serviceids) and can be used to access any resources or operations allowed by the Service ID's role. 

Note that when using HMAC credentials to create signatures to use with direct [REST API](/docs/services/cloud-object-storage/api-reference?topic=cloud-object-storage-compatibility-api) calls that additional headers are required:
1. All requests must have an `x-amz-date` header with the date in `%Y%m%dT%H%M%SZ` format.
2. Any request that has a payload (object uploads, deleting multiple objects, etc.) must provide a `x-amz-content-sha256` header with a SHA256 hash of the payload contents.
3. ACLs (other than `public-read`) are unsupported.

Not all S3-compatible tools are currently supported. Some tools attempt to set ACLs other than `public-read` on bucket creation. Bucket creation through these tools will fail. If a `PUT bucket` request fails with an unsupported ACL error, first use the [Console](/docs/services/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-getting-started) to create the bucket, then configure the tool to read and write objects to that bucket. Tools that set ACLs on object writes are not currently supported.
{:tip}
