---

copyright:
  years: 2017, 2020
lastupdated: "2020-05-15"

keywords: ftp, object storage, cyberduck

subcollection: cloud-object-storage

---
{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:external: target="_blank" .external}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}
{:screen: .screen}
{:tip: .tip}
{:important: .important}
{:note: .note}
{:download: .download} 
{:http: .ph data-hd-programlang='http'} 
{:javascript: .ph data-hd-programlang='javascript'} 
{:java: .ph data-hd-programlang='java'} 
{:python: .ph data-hd-programlang='python'}
{:faq: data-hd-content-type='faq'}
{:support: data-reuse='support'}

# Comparing {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}} to FTP
{: #compare-ftp}

The File Transfer Protocol, (FTP) is a popular way to transfer files, but how does it compare to {{site.data.keyword.cos_full}}?
{: shortdesc}

{{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}} stores encrypted and dispersed data across multiple geographic locations. The information is accessible over popular protocols like HTTPS using a modern RESTful API. FTP, by contrast, requires both a client and a server application and uses an insecure protocol by default. {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}} does all the work of the server FTP daemon (`ftpd`) and offers more options for security and validation than can be obtained from `ftpd` or similar services.


## How {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}} is similar to FTP
{: #compare-ftp-similarities}

If you've used FTP in the past, you have either worked from the command line or from a client application that uses a GUI. Cyberduck is a popular, open source, and easy-to-use graphical interface for either {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}} or FTP.

Cyberduck provides full operational visibility in connecting to {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}}. Cyberduck is downloaded from [cyberduck.io/](https://cyberduck.io/){: external}. Once you have it installed, you can configure it to connect to your instance of {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}}.

Use Cyberduck to create a connection to {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}}. Then, synchronize a folder of local files to a bucket. After you complete [getting started](/docs/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-getting-started) {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}} and obtained your [credentials](/docs/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-service-credentials), follow these steps: 

1. Download, install, and start Cyberduck.
1. When the application opens, you can create a connection to {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}}. Click **Open Connection** to configure the connection.
1. A pop-up window opens. From the menu, select the option, `Amazon S3`. Enter your information into the following fields:

   * `Server`: enter the appropriate endpoint for your data at {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}}

   Ensure that the endpoint region matches the intended bucket. For more information about endpoints, see [Endpoints and storage locations](/docs/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-endpoints#endpoints).{: important}

   * `Access Key ID` generated by selecting the appropriate HMAC option when creating a [Service Credential](/docs/cloud-object-storage/iam?topic=cloud-object-storage-service-credentials);
   * `Secret Access Key` also from the HMAC option.
   * `Add to Keychain`: Save the configuration to the your personal keychain *(optional)*.
   * Ignore the other options like the `Anonymous Login` checkbox, and `SSH Private Key`.

1. Cyberduck takes you to the root of the account where buckets can be created.
   * Right-click within the main pane and select **New Folder**.
   
   Cyberduck supports many transfer protocols where Folder is the more common name for a container construct.
   {: tip}
   
   * Enter the bucket name and then click Create.

1. After the bucket is created, double-click the bucket to view it. Within the bucket you can perform various functions such as:
   * Upload files to the bucket
   * List bucket contents
   * Download objects from the bucket
   * Synchronize local files to a bucket
   * Synchronize objects to another bucket
   * Create an archive of a bucket
1. Right-click within the bucket and select **Synchronize**. A pop-up window opens where you can browse to the folder that you want to synchronize to the bucket. Select the folder and click Choose.
1. After you select the folder, a new pop-up window opens. Here, a drop-down menu is available where you select the synchronization operation with the bucket. Three possible synchronize options are available from the menu:

   * `Download`: This downloads changed and missing objects from the bucket.
   * `Upload`: This uploads changed and missing files to the bucket.
   * `Mirror`: This performs both download and upload operations, ensuring that all new and updated files and objects are synchronized between the local folder and the bucket.

## How {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}} is different from FTP
{: #compare-ftp-differences}

Technically speaking, there are more differences than similarities between FTP and {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}}. Starting from the convenience of not having to run a server application like `ftpd` and continuing through the security of using a secure protocol like HTTPS, the list of differences is lengthy and significant. 

## Next Steps
{: #compare-ftp-next-steps}

Can FTP provide an [API](/docs/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-compatibility-api) or [libraries](/docs/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-sdk-about)? We think not! Learn more about what is available for [developers](/docs/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-gs-dev) of {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}}.