---

copyright:
  years: 2017
lastupdated: "2017-09-27"

---
{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}
{:screen: .screen}
{:tip: .tip}

# Key terms

## Service
An unique component of the {{site.data.keyword.cloud}} Platform (e.g. {{site.data.keyword.cos_full}}, Cloudant, Functions, etc.)

## Resource
Anything that you have created in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}.  A resource could be an instance of a service, a Kubernetes cluster, an object storage bucket, a Cloud Foundry application, or nearly anything else created in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} Platform.  Access to resources is controlled using Identity and Access Management policies.

## Resource instance / Service instance
An instance of a cloud service. Depending on the service, this could be a unique instance or an account within a multi-tenant service ({{site.data.keyword.cos_short}})

## Resource instance ID / Service instance ID
When you create or provision an instance of a service, it is assigned a unique identifier in the form of a Cloud Resource Name (CRN):

```
crn:v1:bluemix:public:<service-name>:<region>:a/<account-id>:<resource-instance-GUID>:<resource-type>:<resource>
```

For an instance of {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}}, this might look like:

```
crn:v1:bluemix:public:cloud-object-storage:global:a/3bf0d9003abfb5d29761c3e97696b71c:d6f04d83-6c4f-4a62-a165-696756d63903::
```

## Service credential
A service credential is a collection of important information used by developers to connect applications to an object storage instance:

```json
{
  "apikey": "<apikey>",
  "endpoints": "https://cos-service.bluemix.net/endpoints",
  "iam_apikey_description": "<auto-generated-apikey-description>",
  "iam_apikey_name": "<auto-generated-apikey-description>",
  "iam_role_crn": "crn:v1:bluemix:public:iam::::serviceRole:<role>",
  "iam_serviceid_crn": "crn:v1:staging:public:iam-identity::a/<account-id>::serviceid:ServiceId-<GUID>",
  "resource_instance_id": "crn:v1:bluemix:public:cloud-object-storage:global:a//<account-id>:<resource-instance-GUID>::"
}
```

## Service ID
A service ID is an abstracted user that is intended to be used by developers to identify applications (or components of applications that access object storage resources. Service IDs can be granted IAM roles on resources just like any other user.

## IAM roles
IAM roles represent the level of access that a given subject should have on a given resource.  There are two types of roles:
  - Platform roles: Work with the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} Platform itself (manage accounts, create instances, write IAM policies).
  - Service roles: Work with service-specific resources (access buckets and objects).

## Identity endpoint
The IAM endpoint (`iam.bluemix.net`) is used to fetch an access token in exchange for an API key.  This token is used in the `Authorization` header in all REST API requests sent to an {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}} service endpoint.

## Service endpoints
Service endpoints (for example, `s3.us-south.objectstorage.softlayer.net`) are the base URLs where API requests that interact with data are sent.

## {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}} bucket location
All buckets in {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}} are scoped to a location. This is either a region (such as `us-south` or `us-east`) or a geography (such as `eu-geo` or `us-geo`).  Within this location, objects are sliced and dispersed across three different physical locations.

## Regions
Region and location are often used interchangeably, but unlike most services available in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} Platform, {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}} is a 'global' service. The  {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} Platform exists in different regions (such as `US South` or `United Kingdom`) and some services are scoped to the location where they were created. While each instance of {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}} is considered to be 'global', each individual bucket has a specific combination of location, resiliency, and storage class.

## {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}} Resiliency
Resiliency refers to the scope and scale of the geographic area across which your data is distributed. _Cross Region_ resiliency will spread your data across several metropolitan areas, while _Regional_ resiliency will spread data across a single metropolitan area.

## {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}} S3 Keys vs. IAM API Key
Instances of {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}} provisioned as IaaS use access and secret key pairs (referred to as HMAC keys) instead of an {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} IAM API key.  These key pairs allow for creating AWS V4 signatures for authentication and authorization instead of the OAuth2 bearer tokens used by {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} IAM. HMAC keys are not yet available for {{site.data.keyword.cos_short}} instances provisioned through the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} Platform.  While IAM API keys allow for much stronger and fine-grained access control, HMAC keys are required for using S3-compatible tools and gateways (such as the AWS CLI or Cyberduck).
